### Why Digital Humanities Belong In English Departments

Hello fellow students,

In one of our very first topics discussed in class, we talked about Kirschenbaum’s article about what digital humanities are, and why it was in English departments. To quickly review; the digital humanities is a field of study, research, teaching, and invention concerned with the intersection of computing and disciplines of regular humanities. To put it in simpler terms, it is the bringing computational methods to help study the things of old such as literature, philosophy, history, culture, etc..  An example would be using a 3D mapping tool like the Z-Axis tool we used in class (finding out the shape and landscape of a certain part of the world).

I believe that digital humanities has earned its place in English departments. Digital humanities has come so far in the past years and with so many technological advancements, researching has never been easier. As Kirschenbaum puts it, it “is the openness of English departments to cultural studies, where computers and other objects of digital material culture become the centerpiece of analysis.” As text-based data is the most easiest to manipulate, a repository such as Google Books has made it much more easier for scholars to access so much information at a time. 

But while everything has a positive there is always a negative side to it. In Drucker’s article about digital humanities and graphical displays, he argues that these tools are a “kind of intellectual Trojan Horse, a vehicle through which assumptions about what constitutes information swarm with potent force.” (1) He makes the argument that because this information can be found so easily and accessibly, people don’t question the data and take it as is. In my opinion this is the main setback for digital humanities. However like every other piece of information it is up the person who uses the information that they find and fact check it.

While looking through different articles about digital humanities I stumbled upon a case study regarding a mobile learning application for reading early modern Japanese texts called the Kuzushiji project. Although it isn’t “English” I believe the message is still the same with how digital humanities keeps its place. In essence this project was made to help better understand classical Japanese calligraphy as before the end of the 19th century, it became an obstacle to access such knowledge as one character could have 5 different meanings. Because of modernization in the 20th century, modern day experts have lost the ability to read these characters. Ironically they need to read these characters to learn about the past, but in exchange for modernization in the past 150 years they cannot read it. So what role does digital humanities play? It has the advantage of having access to both classical writings and modern day digital technology, combing the both will allow the public to once again be able to read these characters. The project has received a fair amount of feedback but overall the response has been positive. If a similar project were to come along to read things like Shakespeare’s work, I believe the response will also be positive as it allows people who show an interest in that kind of work to better understand it. 

### Works Cited
Drucker, Johanna. "Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display." DHQ: Digital Humanities Quarterly: Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display. Digital Humanities Quaterly, n.d. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. <http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/5/1/000091/000091.html>.
Kirschenbaum, Matthew. "Debates in the Digital Humanities." Debates in the Digital Humanities. Dhdebates, n.d. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. <http://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/debates/text/38>.
Hasimoto, Yuta, Yoichi Iikura, Yukio Hisada, SungKook Kang, Tomoyo Arisawa, and Daniel Kobayashi-Better. "The Kuzushiji Project: Developing a Mobile Learning Application for Reading Early Modern Japanese Texts." DHQ: Digital Humanities Quarterly: The Kuzushiji Project: Developing a Mobile Learning Application for Reading Early Modern Japanese Texts. Digital Humanities Quaterly, n.d. Web. 7 Mar. 2017. <http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/11/1/000281/000281.html>.
